When running an event or teaching a class, you might need to divvy people up into groups. Ask them which group they'd like to be put in. Then, use this script to divvy them up in a way that satisfies everyone's preferences as much as possible.

# How to use this

Put everyone's preferences in prefs.csv. Here's an example of what that might look like:

    Alice,group1,group2,group3
    Bob,group1,group3,group2
    Charlie,group1,group2,group3

This means that Alice put group1 as her first choice, group2 as her second
choice, and so on.

How big can the groups get? Write that in capacities.csv. For example:

    group1,2
    group2,3
    group3,4

To run the script:

    python sort.py prefs.csv capacities.csv -100,50,100,200

The numbers shown here mean that giving someone their first choice is good (it has a
"negative cost" of -100), giving someone their second choice is slightly bad (it has a
cost of 50), giving someone their third choice is worse (it has a cost of 100), and giving
someone their fourth choice is really bad (cost of 200).

By playing with these numbers you can, for example, choose between a scenario
where most people get their first choice but some get their third choice, and a
scenario where about half get their first choice and half get their second
choice.

# Dependencies

You'll need to install `networkx`:

    pip install networkx

# Acknowledgements

The code is mostly not mine but is taken from https://stackoverflow.com/questions/21317213/sorting-people-into-groups-based-on-votes
